## Seminar Post 6 - Blockchain
  
Prior to this section, I did not have a firm grasp of what blockchain was. I have owned crypto before (Very briefly) and have seen plenty online about NFTs and
blockchain games, etc. but I have never given it a ton of thought.  
  
I have always figured, and will continue to think even after this, that blockchain as currency will need to be regulated to be viable. I know, that defeats the whole
purpose of a "decentralized" currency, but the value of the coins fluctuate far too frequently and far too extremely to become a piece of everyday life anytime soon.
I believe that regulation would help stabalize it and therefore make it viable.  
  
There are a few things that I think blockchain can genuinely impact for good however. The most interesting case I saw in my research is the use of smart contracts, or 
contracts on the blockchain that are self-completing, for buying or selling houses. Our current model normally requires a third party that takes a large cut of anything
related to the process. They charge massive fees, etc. These things make it more difficult to buy a house, and raise the bar for entry for a lot of people. Cutting out
at least one of the middlemen can result in an increase in equity in our society, something we should always be striving for. This part also probably doesn't need
regulation, just law that governs failure to complete a contract, like there is for normal contracts.  
  
I don't think we're that close to "Web3" or anything that extreme, but we're not that far off either. I just wish the people pushing it on the internet weren't the
worst people you've ever met. Looking at you, tech bros. Nobody wants to buy your monkey jpeg.
