## Senior Seminar 2: Ethics Discussions

Reflecting on our discussion about personal ethics in class, I found our group discussions to be the most fascinating part. Each question that was leveled at us appeared
to have a simple answer, but as we discussed it became evident that there is underlying factors hidden in most ethical questions. The question about taking down a website
distributing harmful, illegal material appeared to be a no-brainer "Yes, take it down," but after discussion, ethically there were other problems. What if you accidently take
down an important function on the same server and people die? What if you get implicated? Why not just inform the authorities.  
  
I do wish we had gone a little bit more into the ethical implications of there being a higher power vs. there not being one. I believe it was suggested that without a higher power,
there would be no such thing as "true" answers to ethical questions. I've spent some time thinking about it, and I believe that we have evolved to hold certain qualities
to be important and ethically correct. We do not condone killing, not because a higher power embedded us with "this is wrong" but because human beings hold personal liberty
as an important value. The things that society seems to deem the most heinous of crimes, such as enslavement or killing, are crimes that violate that value. Things like stealing,
which the Bible would list as wrong, can be more nuanced and not always ethically incorrect. One of time's most revered heroes is Robin Hood, who's sole purpose was to rob the rich
to feed the poor, and we have accepted that as, at the very least, morally grey. I would argue, based off this, that we base our group moral decisions on values built over the course
of thousands of years of human evolution.  
  
Ethically, my argument against a higher power, again, based off my reasonings above, is that there are two cases in which a higher power exists. Number 1, a higher power created us,
and has the power to control what is going on down here. In this case, said higher power allows things like child slavery and wrongful imprisonment, murder, etc. to happen. In this case,
I would consider the higher power to be malicious and not worthy of worship. Number 2, a higher power exists, but does not have the power to affect our world. In this case, it cannot be assumed
that said higher power created us, or that said higher power could even be considered a "higher" power, and therefore is unworthy of worship. I think to base moral decisions, let alone law
or policy decisions solely off of the assumption that neither of these cases are true, is heinous and unethical within itself. A biblical moral philosophy is not necessary wrong by itself,
but to suggest that it is the only correct moral philosophy is irresponsible at best when so many questions about the system its built on exist.
