## Upcoming Chess Project

I promised updates, and here they are!  
This week, I have been working on my first major free-time, out-of-school project. I have built, from scratch, a working chess game in python, using no libraries. It has been challenging, but has been a great exercise in 
code structure, optimization, and design. I have neglected to take snapshots of the code up to now so many parts of it are complete, but I think sharing the workflow will be helpful in understanding how I got to where I am now.  

I first started with a blank file, with the vague ideations of a chess game brewing in my mind. I wrote a few lines, decided it was not worth the effort, and closed VSCode. I came back a few weeks later and began writing.  

I started with classes, one for each piece type. My classes at its core are much the same. They each have a constructor, an owner field (to keep track of which pieces are which players), a toString(), and a move function. 
When special operations are needed, in the case of castling for the king piece and rook pieces, and promotion and first move double movement for pawns, special fields are added such as hasMoved for all three, and a hasBeenChecked
field for the King. The King and Pawn classes also have additional functions, castle and promote respectively.  

Following the writing of the core classes, I created the board. It is output in the terminal as a 2D array, drawn using dashes and underscores. It is a bit rudimentary but at this point it is the best we have.  

At this point the game itself was mostly finished. I had a board, the ability to take in moves and make those moves and have them reflected in the next printing of the board. You could capture, promote, castle, everything except en passant (google it).
The next step was to implement AI, the main goal of this project. I needed a way to grade a move and a way for the computer to compare and pick the best moves.  

So next came the eval function. I understood that writing an accurate chess eval system was complicated, and the version that is available at the time of this writing is far from finished. The function takes into account many things,
such as pieces available, each sides available moves (more == better), queen movement, development, piece positioning (center == better, edges == worse), and king safety.  

Using this eval function, I built a move-picker function. Initially, the system was very dumb. Due to time limitations, namely the fact that the AI was taking upwards of 20 seconds to make a single move, I only was having the system
evaluate one move into the future. At this point, the AI would make wild sacrifices, seemingly for no reason because it could only look very limitedly into the future.  

Next came optimization. I have never put a ton of work into optimization for any program I have written in the past, generally my first attempt was good enough to pass in college. Here though? Optimization would be key. Here I 
recognized my first major design flaw: deep copies. Due to aliasing in python, any time I would need to test a move, like when generating all legal moves for a player, I would make a deep copy of the board, try the move, and then copy
the board back. This was very slow, so I started only holding copies of the specific pieces that would be affected by a move, turning that often 20 second wait-time down to a single second.  

That brings us to where we are today. I have started work on increasing the depth of the AI's move selection, and by extension making it smarter. This has generated its own problems with time complexity, so solving this problem is going to take some time.  

The repo is available on my profile to take a look at. Thanks! I'll have more updates soon.
