## Seminar Post 4 - Citizen 4

This is my reaction post to the documentary Citizen 4, shown in class, about the plight of Edward Snowden and the responses towards his leakings of massive amounts of classified data
aimed at informing the public about the US Government's extensive spying operations.  
  
Coming into this, as a computer science student and a person who would consider himself well informed on world happenings, I of course knew who Edward Snowden is. I wouldn't say that
too much of the documentary was new information. I think that what he did was incredibly brave, and neccessary, and I consider the governmental response to what he did to be rather gross.  

Whistleblowers, in a world run by capitalism, may be our only safeguard against abuse by our governments and businesses. When those two co-exist and watch out for each other, accountability MUST come from the people.
It's hard to say how much of an impact Snowden's actions GENUINELY had, because the nature of the problem. If we think of a whistleblower for a company, alleging something like racial or gender based abuse,
progress and a fix to the issue would be more visible. Those businesses don't deal in secrets like the NSA. The NSA's operations HAVE to be closed off to facilitate the work they do, and I do believe in a post-9/11 world
the work they do IS neccessary, so it is of course mostly impossible to gauge if the surveillance has continued at the same level.  
  
I believe in digital privacy. I believe in personal privacy. I also believe that some monitoring of the public is neccessary for our protection. The line just needs to be drawn better, and enforced harder.  
  
As a side note, I would LOVE to know what info they have on me. I imagine as someone who has lived on military bases most of my life that I'm on some sort of watch list. Someone leak me the details, my email is at the bottom of this blog.
