## Seminar Post 3 - Bees Discussion Takeaways

This week we discussed the privacy, security, and intellectual property questions we could come up with about HiveTracks and the BeeInformed partnership. I believe
this exercise was aimed at challenging us to think harder about these three areas and apply analysis of these topics to the two enitities listed. These three areas are some of
the most important when dealing with digital enterprises, and they are all things we will need to consider in our endeavors as computer scientists. My three biggest takeaways from
this discussion are as follows:  
  
1. Things, like this and the ethics discussion, are always more complicated then they seem. When this assignment was described, I thought it would be simple. I could not
think of anything off the top of my head related to privacy concerns in the apiary science space. But deeper digging revealed thoughts about user data, and how that data is stored,
 secured, and who has access to it.  
  
2. It takes a lot of thought to develop a digital company. There are so many things that you have to be cautious of. One misstep in the security sector means that user data
 could be leaking. A false move in the privacy sector means that user trust could be violated. A lot of forethought is necessary to develop a trustworthy, secure company. It is also
 the type of thing that you do not mess up twice. I'm sure lessons were learned along the way developing HiveTracks and the BeeInformed Partnership.  
  
3. There is more to bees than I thought as well. Bees are my number one irrational fear. Something about knowing they could hurt me even though my brain knows they probably won't. The
 science of taking care of them I always assumed to be complicated, but further investigation of the topic revealed it to be more in depth and complex than I had even thought.
