## Seminar Post 5 - Privacy Discussions  
  
The past few weeks in class we have been discussing privacy, how privacy is approached in public, and our inherent right or lack of right to privacy. These discussions
included an assignment where we were required to research a partner and find everything we could on them.  
  
Overall, nothing that I was informed of came as too much of a surprise. I have Googled myself before and I am aware of just how easy it is to find information about 
someone online. I consider myself lucky that I am not normally the type of person that would be targeted by this kind of stalking, and that I recently
changed my name to something rather common, but I can empathize with those that would be more likely to find themselves in that situation.
  
During the "What can you find" assignment, I was able to find my partner's parent's information, including addresses, phone numbers, emails among other things. All of these
could potentially be harmful, and most of it is not stuff that a person willingly puts on the internet. They were obtained through slightly shady background-check websites
that I assume get their info from publically available government documents like divorce decrees or other things. I specifically remember recently a music review YouTuber 
I watch occasionally had the fact that he was going through a divorce leaked, because documents like that are available on the internet publically for some reason. Immediately his
right to privacy, which I believe to be inherent, was violated and destroyed.  
  
Overall, I know I am be surveilled, and I also know there is nothing I can do about it. The people doing the watching are the most powerful in society, and they are all but
untouchable. Best to get over it for the time being.
