## Lessons in Accuracy and Quarterbacks

Hello everyone. Raise your hand if you've ever had someone get mad at you because your fantasy linear model named after your son told you to tell him to play the wrong QB that week. Just me? Dang.  

In all seriousness, Baker Mayfield over Jayden Daniels is not the first mistake JohnFantasy has made, nor will it be the largest*. The current standard error for the QB model is over 8. That is over a touchdown in fantasy scoring. The WR and RB models (which are at least trained partially) are marginally better, clocking in at around 6 each. Also a touchdown.

The main lesson here is how to create a better model without overfitting. I could train purely on matchup, but that would overfit to specific QBs. Teams play each other a max of twice a year during the regular season, and most of the time only once. If QB A scored 10 on a team, John would predict 10 for that QB, on that team, vs. whatever team he played. That isn't helpful.

Researching ways to improve this will be my number 1 M.O. for John in the coming weeks. At the same time, I don't know how much further I can go. Football has an element of randomness. A large element. The r^2^ of my models suggest 60% randomness. What can a young machine learning engineer do?

Deployment plans have been paused. No use in deploying it when it won't be useful in a week anyways. I hope to have it deployment-ready before next season. The project continues, although the regular season does not.

*I will add that John told me to start Jordan Love over Bo Nix, which did end up being the right decision even if 'conventional wisdom' (or at least what I initially had thought) would have said otherwise. 1-1.

Norwegian is also still going well, and I am on a 20-something day long streak. I now know how to ask people if they want to go camping. Vil du pa telttur? Drar du pa telttur? Riveting.
