## October (ish) Updates

Hey everyone.  
I want to talk about something that I have been dealing with a lot over the last 1.5+ years.  
  
Energy.  
  
I believe that I posess the capability for knowledge to be a 10x engineer.  
What is holding me back?  
  
Energy.  
  
I cannot bring myself to sit and research anymore. I have project ideas, and most of the knowledge to get them off the ground, but I can't bring
myself to do them. I think its a mixture of focus and motivation, but mostly motivation. I know that things could be better, happiness and financially.
But staying the course requires so much less work, and its so hard for me to move past that.  
  
So here's the deal. From now on, I work on one project a week. One week, that's it, that's all I will require of myself. Projects can be big or small.
So this week, my project was to learn about Zero Trust. I will then blog about what I learned as a way to relay critically and synthesize the information.  
  
So here's what I learned.  
  
Zero Trust is a cybersecurity framework centered around not assuming anything about any interaction on a network. We do not assume the identity of actors,
and we do not assume their intent. The main things that I took away from the learning is that most companies have an internal network. These use vpns to connect.
Zero Trust principles scan incoming traffic, and use all available information to verify the identity of the connection. That could be IP, MAC, host names, location, etc.
This extends also to device information like make and model. Secondly, Zero Trust assumes that every connection is a breach. Using Just In Time and Just Enough Access principles,
the incoming user is only allowed access to specific information that they need, at only that time. Previous access does not guarentee future access. This limits data breaches (in the event of a malicious attack) to only those resources.  
  
Zero Trust principles secure a system by vigilence. Prior to Zero Trust frameworks, it was a cat and mouse game. Malware and ransomware evolved, and cybersecurity solutions evolved to meet them. This continued on and on.
The only way to prevent this cycle going forward is to lock everything down. Prevent the breaches in the first place, and when you can't, limit how much damage the threat actor can do.  
  
I'll end with some updates from me. School is going fine. I haven't been doing nearly enough studying, however, and I need to nut up in that regard. I'm thinking about branching out into cybersecurity certifications. I get worried that my current career trajectory may be locking me into a field that has limited job availability.
I really enjoy working on SIEM and REM products, and I think the work I do is impactful, but I fear that the market for these roles isn't expanding in any way. Pivoting to more traditional cybersecurity roles may be my best bet, but man are those certs expensive. Maybe it would make the most sense to go the product manager route with an MBA. We will see.  
  
As always, thanks for tuning in. Hopefully (for real this time) more of these will follow. Stay safe.
